# Data Analytics Fundamentals

This site provides documentation for this project.
Use the navigation to explore module-specific materials.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get these projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- [**Project Instructions**](./project-instructions.md) - specific to this module
- [**Your Files**](./your-files.md) - how to copy the example and create your version
- [**Glossary**](./glossary.md) - project terms and concepts
- [**API**](./api.md) - autogenerated code documentation for public project interface
   Not easy to read, but useful once you get used to it.
- **Module-specific**
  - [RESOURCES.md](./module/RESOURCES.md)
  - [seaborn-datasets.md](./module/seaborn-datasets.md)
  - [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./module/TROUBLESHOOTING.md)


## Custom Project


### Dataset

This project uses the Seaborn Taxis dataset. The dataset includes colums such as

### Signals

The primary signals used in this project were:

* fare
* tip
* tolls
* total
* distance

A custom signal was created by calculating the average distance for each taxi type (yellow or green)

### Experiments

I modified the original example project by creating a custom notebook (`eda_nate.ipynb`) and a custom Python application (`app_nate.py`).
### Results

Taxis data was used from Seaborn resulting in three charts to evaluatte the data.

Conclusions from the Heatmap / Correlation chart include:
 - Distance had a strong correlation to fare which is to be expected.
 - Tipping had a weaker correlation to tolls than any other column implying if there were tolls in the trip the tip was less.

Conclusions from scatterplot:
 - The yellow and green cab data seems very evenly distributed
 - There seems to be a consistent grouping for yellow around $50 regardless of distance.

Conclusions from Boxplot:
 - Green trips tend to be slightly longer (the median for green is higher than yellow)
 - Green has a wider diversity of distances


### Interpretation

Taxi's have similar data from both Green and Yellow.  When looking further into the data there are some indications that Yellow has a strict price limit on rides within a certain distance while green cabs seem to drive a wider variety of distances.
